So we covered a lot of the basics
until now, we learned how we can interact with the template of vuejs, how we can output data there,
how we can listen to events and we also had a look at how we could conditionally render content with
v-if or v-show and how we can render a list. I'd say before we dive into the depths of vuejs and learn more
about what this vuejs instance we're using, let's take the knowledge we gathered until now and let's build
our first course project so that we could actually see what we can already do with that knowledge.
We're going to build this little game here,
we fight against a monster here
and once I click on start new game we got the ability to attack, to make a special attack, to heal or
to give up.
Well as you can see if I attack, I do a random amount of damage logged down there and I also take some
damage as the monster has a chance to attack me.
I can also launch a special attack and if I take too much damage of course, I can heal up here,
you can see that the monster still attacks me but overall, I should gain some health at least. And if I
get a feeling this all is not ending well,
well I can always give up and therefore start a new game
but now let's quickly defeat this monster here and yeah, we won and can either now start a new game again
or just cancel and either start a new game here or leave.
This is the very basic application, this little game and as you might already be able to tell, it uses
a lot of the things we practiced.
It clearly listens to events, it conditionally shows you different buttons and this log which is clearly
a list getting rendered
here, we have our health bars here which are kind of managed by the application and much more.
So this is what we're going to build, now
the challenge for you is
try building this on your own,
features used are of course v-if for conditionally showing things, v-for this list, we're probably
somehow setting the styles on the monster and our health bar
and we need some methods to be executed whenever we click one of the buttons. Again when we click attack
or any button besides give up,
we always have two rounds getting executed, our round where we do some damage or heal ourselves and
a round for the monster where it is able to damage us.
This is the challenge,
try building this game and thereafter, we'll do this together and you can compare your solution to mine.
Challenge
mine obviously and see how I solve this. The styles and the general html code for this project can be found
attached to this video you so that you don't have to worry about setting this interface up but can really
focus on the javascript code.